(@pt)--Hello Doctor! My name is Chaitra. Gender is Female. Age is 25. My main issue is: Pain in the chest and arms My current medications are: No.
Hi, My name is Dr. Tracy Wilson, M.D..
Hi doctor.
Please explain your query in detail.
I am having some pain in my breast bone and my left arm for a while now. I think it is coz of stress or exertion. Please let me know what i can do for it?
Can you rate your pain on an intensity scale of 1-10 with 10 being the worst?
My pluse rate is approx 70 bpm.
Do you have any  sweating, nausea, vomiting, dizziness, palpitations, heartburn? Does it hurt when you press your chest? Do you have any diagnosed medical condition such as Ischemic Heart Disease, Diabetes, Hypertension? History of smoking.
1-2. No none of the above. Just some headache coz of the cold weather . I have a small pimple on the chest which hurts when I press bht nothing else.
does it hurt when you press chest other than pimple.
And the top bart of my breastbone is a bit sore.
?
Top part of the breastbone to the left is a bit sore . It's not deep rooted chest pain .
for now You can take over the counter pain killer ibuprofen/paracetamol and relieve pain and take it 8 hourly, apply a local pain killer gel and then do hot fomentation at the site of pain.
What is it ? Stress related stuff or menstruation related coz i habe my periods due in 3-4 days.
most likely stress related.
Or is it a heart issue. I have heard of youngster getting heart attacks and other stuff. Or is it a heart issue. I have heard of youngster getting heart attacks and other stuff.that is worrying mw.
It does not look like heart attack please relax.
My pulse is around 70 then why is it stress?
this is normal pulse. its not necessary that you will have increase heart rate.
Oh..okay. Can there be My measures i can tAke to avoid stress. I get worked up during my deadlines at work. And by seeing these weird medical.articles in the papers about such stuff I mentioned before.
1. Increase your daily water intake. 2. Start drawing, or writing, or playing music, these are the things by which you can express yourself without needing anyone to talk to. 3. I would advise you to start doing bodyweight training such as calisthenics; it doesn't need any gym equipment and can be done at home on the floor. Another alternative is yoga, it immensely benefits mental health, and you can mix both of these and do them on a regular basis. Make sure to stay persistent. 4. Eat 5 cashews a day and eat a little portion of dark chocolate every Monday (once per week). Our brain produces a happy hormone known as serotonin. This makes you feel good and relaxed. 5. Try this: inhale 4 count, pause 7 count and exhale 8 count. Repeat 4-6 rounds. It is known as Dr. Andrew Weil’s breath work, there is a demonstration video available online, and you can look it up. This is very effective if done regularly.  Points 2,3 and 4 help in boosting the happy hormone production and are beneficial in the long run as well.
Thanks doctor. Now i feel less stressed about my health and more relaxed. Have a nice evening.
You're welcome. Take care, Happy to help! If you liked our service please leave us a Google review: https://goo.gl/zSyZEa :).